# Project_R_Econometrics_Quantile-Regressions
Quantile regressions are suited for many applications, especially if one wishes to analyze changes in distributions. A well-known example would be the study of wages. Linear regressions, which focus on mean conditional effects, assume that the effects of a given variable are shared among all individuals. Though, it is intuitive that they should not be the same depending of their place in the distribution of wages. This issue may be important for policymakers as the potential effects of an increase of wages is likely to be different between low wages and other wages. Even if quantile regressions have proven to be adapted to such issues, there is no consensus on how to deal in case of sample selection. Though, this is a major topic that has been the source of a wide literature. For instance, sample selection includes truncated data and censored dependent variable. In their article (Quantile selection models with an application to understanding changes in wage inequality), Manuel Arellano and Stéphane Bonhomme offer an approach for dealing with sample selection using quantile selection models. Their work is then applied to studying the evolution wage inequality in the UK. When studying wage inequality, there is a selection bias issue as the individuals of study are the ones who are employed, leaving aside the unemployed. Although quantile regressions seem appropriate to studying this subject, it is worth keeping in mind that during a given period of time, employment rate and employment composition are subject to change. It is thus important to correct for selection into employment. We implemented the method using R and applied it to a real dataset, the same dataset they used in the paper.
